Progress update 
The process of merging will carry out in multiple steps. First step will compare files and determine matches, conflicts and new records. Comparison of records will be performed, depending on type of the record, three separate ways: Fist comparison will be a "Natural" comparison. This is where records are compared using their identifying values. For example a tree can be identified by it's Unit, Stratum, Sample Group and Tree Number. This is similar to how the old system compared records. The down side to this type of comparison is if one of these values get changed there is no way to determine if a record was created, deleted or modified. The next comparison performed is a record id comparison. In the file each record is assigned a numeric id. If you first and last name was your natural id, this is like you SSN. The down side to this type of comparison is if multiple copies of a file got circulated and data added to them. Record IDs would conflict and data from one file could overwrite another with the same record id if no other comparison was made. The third type of comparison that is made is a globally unique id (GUID) comparison. This is the most trust able of the three. If your natural id was you first and last name, and you record ID was your SSN, then this would be you finger print. Even if you had an identical twin with the same DNA your finger prints would be different. The down side to this type of comparison is that it is very rigid. In a situation where conflicts exist, it doesn't provide a "just make it all fit together" solution. Also, not all record types make sense to use a GUID. If a sample group was added separately to multiple files, it should not matter if auxiliary identities are initially different. If the stratum they belong to and their names are the same, they should be considered the same and their auxiliary identities synced.

By allowing combinations of types of comparisons, we can customize the merging process at a high level, using what we think works best for different record types and possibly what we know about issues that may exist with a particular file or files. 

Conflicts will be determined when two comparison types disagree. Sometimes one comparison type will not find a match. In that case it will not create a conflict. Another way two records can conflict is if two component records match with the same master record. 

Recorords will be considered a match as long as one comparison select determins a match and all matches concure. 

On the case of a good match, to determine if a master record should update the components or the other way around. The merge process compares the row version ( a number that gets incremented each time a record is modified ). which ever file has the highest row version updates the other. 

TODO - provide a way to inspect the data of records while the results of the comparison are displayed. The user will be able to see what may have cause a conflict or verify matches. 